So we've talked a lot
about IPv4 in this course,
but now let's talk about IPv6.
So why?
Well, because IPv4 was designed
to provide 4.3 billion addresses at the time of creation.
And engineers who invented this protocol never thought
that they would be all used,
but it turns out that very, very soon,
they will all be exhausted.
And so therefore, there needs to be a new scheme of IPs,
and this is IPv6, which is a successor of IPv4.
So IPv6 is designed to provide, and wait for it,
3.4 times 10 at the power of 38 unique IP addresses.
So this is a lot of IP addresses.
And every IPv6 address in AWS is going to be public
and internet-routable.
So the format is x.x.x.x, eight times,
where x is hexadecimal,
where the range can be from 0000 to ffff.
So you don't need to know exactly how an IPv6 is formed,
okay, but these are some examples of IPv6.
I'm not going to linger on it.
Okay, you can have a look,
but what's important for you is to just see one
and say, "Oh, okay, this looks like an IPv6."
And IPv6 can take multiple forms.
Okay, so why am I talking about IPv6?
Well, because we can enable IPv6 support in our VPC.
So IPv4 can never be disabled
for your VPC and subnets, okay?
But you can enable IPv6 that are public IP addresses
to operate in dual-stack mode.
That means that your EC2 instances
when launched in your VPC will get
at least a private internal IPv4 and a public IPv6,
and they can communicate using either IPv4 or IPv6
to the internet through an internet gateway.
So let's take an example.
Our EC2 instance has a private IP as an IPv6,
which is by default public.
And then if he wants to access the internet,
it can do so through internet gateway.
So internet gateway do provide connectivities
for IPv4 and IPv6.
And then my EC2 instance will be publicly accessible
in this case because it has a public IPv6 address,
and the internet gateway
would provide internet connectivity.
So here is an exam scenario for you,
so around IPv6 troubleshooting.
So as you know, IPv4 cannot be disabled
for your VPC and subnets.
And so if you have an IPv6-enabled VPC,
and you cannot launch an EC2 instance in your subnets,
then it's not because the instance cannot acquire an IPv6
because the space is actually very, very large,
and there will be enough IPv6s for your EC2 instances.
It's because there are no available IPv4 left
in your subnets.
And the solution for this is to create an IPv4 CIDR
in your subnet.
So let's take collect this VPC,
It has an IPv4 space and so also an IPv6 space.
So we keep on launching EC2 instances
that will get private IPv4 and public IPv6.
So we launch them, we launch them, we launch them,
and then once we have exhausted the space of IPv4,
if a user tries to create a new EC2 instance,
it will get an error, not because the IPv6 ran out,
but because the IPv4 space within our subnets
or our VPC ran out,
in which case, well, what we do is that we add a new CIDR
within our VPC and our subnets,
and therefore, we can start launching new EC2 instances
that will get a different IPv4 address range for the IP.
But we'll keep to work around this issue like this, okay?
So that's it for the theory on IPv6 in AWS.
I will see you in the next lecture
for just a little practice.